---
title: "Some dates have special meaning"
date: 2026-01-18
permalink: "/dispatches/{{date | htmlDateString}}-{{title | slugify}}/index.html"
---

How do you do, awesome person?

[_Ed: the date-specific part of this newsletter was written a week before you received it. Pretend this came in the physical mail and all will be good._ 😊 ]

We've had some wild weather out here on the coast.  Lots and lots and lots of rain.  We're used to the gloom and drizzle of 'winter', but this is proper rain.  Full sheets of water falling, splattering under the balcony overhang and slapping on our too-thin windows.  Cindy bought proper rain shoes so she can survive on the playground ([Vessi's](https://ca.vessi.com/) -- they're all the rage.)  On the other hand, I've adjusted to 'rained in' days where I survive with good music, a well stocked pantry and a high wattage sun lamp and wait until the sun appears again. 

Ol' Sol does appear from time to time, and he's glorious.  Today was one of those days -- not a cloud in sight, no wind, just lovely warm sunshine.  +10C and spectacular.  We got a car and headed out to French Beach to sit on logs, read books, paint pictures, and basically stare at the sun across the water and soak it all up.  

French Beach has to be our favourite day trip.  They have fire pits  (you know, for all the trees here, there are precious few fire pits), so we stopped in Sooke for open stock weiners and buns, to have a weiner roast at the beach.  We have a tote bag of firewood at the door at all times for this exact purpose, so when, at 9AM, we decided today was a French Beach Day, we showered, dressed, and were on the road before 10.  Zim, zam, road trip.  Fifteen minutes later we are in the forest, cruising along, being blinded by ol' Sol whenever the car points south.  Awesome.

Halfway to Sooke, I remembered. It's January 18th!  Opening Day!   And that's when I knew it was finally time to write your our New Years letter.

## Some dates are special.

You see, January 18 is a special day in the life of Cindy and me.  Cindy, me, and you too.  It's the day that started the whole chain of events that connected us with the majority of the folks reading this dispatch.  January 18th, 2011, was the day we opened Orange Boot Bakery.

It wasn't +10C and sunny back then, let me tell you.  At least not in Regina.  It was a cold one.  I have a photo of our grey Honda Fit, parked alone in the bakery parking lot, in front of a massive snow pile, with the sun rising over my left shoulder so both the car and the snow glowed pink.  That was the weather as Cindy and her dad (and a forklift) jiggled our massive oven through the door, as we painted the walls and laid floor tile and set up the gear before opening the doors on that cold January morning.  What a time.  

We were swamped that first day, and for quite a few days after, thanks to the amazing Bootniks; friends, teachers, co-workers, neighbours, fellow hockey and soccer parents, community association folks, everyone we knew after a lifetime living in the same place and putting down deep roots. They were met at the door by new folks who heard about us on CBC Radio and TV, thanks to the blanket coverage we received because it was a slow news day (remember them?) and because our friend Brenda Clark's son worked for the CBC. We didn't even have a sign outside -- just orange walls, great aromas and not nearly enough bread.

There's more to celebrate.  We made January 18th special at the bakery every year.  Orange Boot's birthday.  That's the day we made our draw for the True Friends contest, collecting names from everyone who came into the shop after the holidays.  The first year the prize was free bread for a year for you and your best friend (won by our friends Ciara and her mom Merrilee.) But after that we figured out the formula -- travelling baskets full of bread and sweets, passed from friend to friend, all year long.  Even the folks who didn't win the contest were excited when a basket came back to be re-filled. 

I know I am sentimental. I know I get nostalgic.  And I know we've done some pretty cool things since the Orange Boot days.  But I still think that first January 18th was the pinnacle for me overcoming huge fear and doubt and going for a dream.  It was the biggest bet we ever made and I think it had the best result.  We got to Feed the People and we got to meet you (even if you never made it into Orange Boot.)

## Our Year In Review

In a year where everything around us is burning up, I think we muddled through OK.  Any regrets are in the direction of not doing enough to help those around us, or not knowing what to do to help those around us, or if I'm really honest, being too scared to stand up and do it.  The cynic in me says that it's all OK, there will be more than enough opportunities to Do Better in this regard in 2026. So that's something, I guess.

{% imagePlaceholder 'https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-MrHJ3FX/0/LvntCcvxsWnXQnbSPk5n7bs2VsGH6Xsf8qf8QpWvJ/L/i-MrHJ3FX-L.jpg', 'a golden orange sunset shining on Vancouver Island, taken from the Swartz Bay ferry' , 'Sunset from the Ferry - September 2025' %}

Cindy's still working as an Education Assistant at Willows School, helping kids work and play in a good way.  She graduated to Grade One along with a kiddo who she helped in Kindergarten.  Cindy's been at the school for six years now and I have not been to a single work function in that time.  With the exception of Cindy's three best friends, I haven't met any of the staff or the students.  But I have a roster of names in my brain of over 100 teachers, EA's, custodians, admin staff and students, past and present, who are the characters of dozens of stories that Cindy shares at suppertime.  Sometimes I get mixed up, confusing Alison the Grade 4 teacher with Allison the EA who partners with Cindy to do diabetic support, Ally the EA who used to work at Willows but moved schools last year, and Allie the UVic intern who graduated and is now on the spare board and makes an appearance from time to time.  I am trying, honest.  But when the new Principal is also named Cindy and I can't tell whether Veronica is mad at Principal Cindy or Awesome Cindy my lovely wife, I give up and request a written transcript.

Our son Ben is back in Canada.  He was in Glasgow, Scotland for three years getting his physiotherapy degree and working at a hospital in Ayr for a year.  But he got all his Canadian certifications and is back in Vancouver working as a physio at a clinic a five minute bike ride from his apartment.  He's the team physio of a local rugby club on weekends, and is still involved with the Scotland National Lacrosse team.  Ben went to the European championships in Poland last summer with the lacrosse team and I think they are sticking with him for the next World Cup in two years.  So he's a busy fellow.  Busy as in, we are in the same time zone now but we only get together a couple times per year.  Hopefully a little more this year.

Our daughter Robyn is still in England, living on the coast in Ramsgate and teaching school in Canterbury.  She switched to a new school this year and is Head of Drama for the school as well as teaching English.  After a long time settling in England (with Covid and lockdowns and all that throughout), she's quite settled these days with some very good friends to lean on and to help.  She is even back doing some sports, playing on a recreational soccer team and one that sounds a lot more serious. 

Cindy's dad Chris Schminosky passed away at the end of June.  Chris was an elemental mage, a Titan with wood, metal, concrete and anything mechanical.  He could build anything and fix everything. I've never met a person with so many technical smarts. He was generally a quiet man, except when he was around his grandkids and he transformed into a boisterous goofball, an all-in playmate and a mountain of encouragement and support.  And over the years, every friend of Chris's were sure to let me know about the important, positive impact Chris had on their lives.  He was the person to talk to, the listener and the good friend.  His decade long struggle with Alzheimer's took his voice and may have taken his mind, but his body put up a hell of a battle.

So our travel this year was once again all about family.  We were back to Saskatchewan to visit Cin's family in Regina and my dad in Moose Jaw, then back in June for Chris's funeral.  Robyn joined us in Victoria in late July and the three of us drove back out to Saskatchewan for more visiting.  After Robyn flew back to England from Regina, Cindy and I continued north to Prince Albert to see my sister Wanda and have mini Orange Boot reunions with amazing bakers Teisha in Prince Albert and Sandy in Edmonton.  And then, finally, we got to set up the tent and have some fun days camping as we drove home through the Rockies.  All in, it was a 6000km loop and I'd do it all again this year if I could.

{% imagePlaceholder 'https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-SFL2HDc/0/LXRMHfKbFfmkq96VSQvBW7cnnNKhtS5gcwzMCQ9QX/L/i-SFL2HDc-L.jpg', 'our old tent, set up on our campsite pad, Moyie Lake BC' , 'Back in the tent!  Moyie Lake, August 2025'%}

As for me, it was a quiet year.  I'm still figuring things out it seems.  We had another successful run of the [Bakery Leadership Circle](https://bbga.org/BLC) in the spring, which was a joy to do.  This is a four month program that I run along with the Bread Bakers Guild of America, where we gather bakery owners from across North America (and beyond!) and help each other with their biggest challenges or most difficult decisions.  But after the session ended and we had our summer road trip, I was a lost soul in September.  

In November, I did another guest baking gig with my friends at Union Pacific Coffee, doing the morning baking so the owners could take a much needed vacation (I'll be there two weeks in February too.)  But other than that, I bowled when it was sunny and worried when it was cloudy.  I'm still looking for ways to be helpful to people, but as time passes, job descriptions seem more and more like a language from an long-dead era, like ancient Greek, or Latin, or the flowery language of the French Court.  _Are you passionate about end-to-end integrated solutions and working independently and as part of a fast paced, cross functional, multi-disciplinary team?_ Good grief...

Ah, right.  I mentioned bowling.  My new love is the sport of Lawn Bowls.  There's a club near our apartment and I watched them playing for years, but we finally made it to their open house in April and I joined the club.  It fills that sports hole in my soul that used to be taken up by golf, back in the 'before children' times.  It's inexpensive, quick compared to golf and right around the corner.  I've got the bug pretty hard.  I won our club Novice Championship in July (for first year bowlers and hey, they didn't get many new members!) and got to compete in the South Island tournament in September, where I won three of four games.  Not too shabby, eh?  I'm still a pretty poor bowler compared to everyone who isn't a Novice, but that's OK. I love it and I can play it year round, so long as it isn't raining.  

{% imagePlaceholder 'https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-2sZ67xL/0/LK6wGLsMvPC2BSBRTc57mFWf6JCfmW6Mw2X3jJVRs/M/i-2sZ67xL-M.jpg', 'three black lawn bowls nestled around the white jack.', "My best bowling end -- it's all downhill from here." %}

I decided to draw a line under the [Rise Up! Podcast](https://riseuppod.com/) earlier in the year.  After seven years and over 225 episodes, I wanted something to change but had no good ideas of what to change, so I stopped.  Since then, I've heard from so many listeners who got a lot out of the show and were very clear about what they loved about the conversations.  That means a lot.  I still don't see a way forward with the show, but it's gratifying to know that it had a positive impact on folks.  

One final bit of sad family news is that we said farewell to our cat Iggy last month.  Orange Boot veterans will know the story of how Robyn snuck a kitten into the house when we were all busy at the bakery, and how Iggy went from nuisance to part of the family (even if I grumbled about her in print.)  When Robyn moved to the UK and we moved to the coast, Iggy became our cat, and as the years went on she was our constant companion, curling up in our laps and purring away as we read a book or watched a show.  We miss her terribly and the apartment is extremely quiet without her.

{% imagePlaceholder 'https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-qLpMNfX/0/LvsrNd6wcrgWdZn8Bv7LmqWbN2HN8PzLJcZ44ktWX/M/i-qLpMNfX-M.jpg',  'Selfie with Iggy in my lap','Farewell, Iggy Cat' %}

## My Year's Best Lists

I've done this before, so it's officially TRADITION!  Alas, I don't think my viewing habits have changed much this year.  But let me share two things that have me quite excited:

### Re-discovering old music!

I bought a CD player for my laptop and dug out the 'Best of' CD collection that we brought from Regina.  There's some properly esoteric albums in there -- mostly stuff we bought at Folk Festivals back in olden times.  I thought it would be like listening to something for the first time, but I was taken right back to starry nights in Regina and Winnipeg, listening to the best music ever.  Some highlights that are well worth seeking out:

_Travelling Home (1992)_ by [Rory McCleod](https://rorymcleod.com/)

_Néné (1993)_ by [Alpha Yaya Diallo](https://alphayayadiallo.com/)

_Moonlight Dancers (1992)_ by [Bourne and Macleod](https://www.discogs.com/master/938670-Bourne-And-MacLeod-Moonlight-Dancers)

_One Drop(1992)_ by [Dobb and Dumela](https://www.discogs.com/release/6763428-Dobb-And-Dumela-One-Drop)



###  Books of the Year

I'm on the Carl train!  I read [Dungeon Crawler Carl](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56791389-dungeon-crawler-carl) by Matt Dinniman and really enjoyed it.  It's a little gruesome in spots but playful gruesome?!  There's seven books in the series so I have some more work to do.

I may have mentioned Richard Osman's _Thursday Murder Club_ books before.  I've enjoyed them all and the most recent book, [The Impossible Fortune](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/222292420-the-impossible-fortune) is as good as the rest.  They're best read in order so get cracking!

I am a fan of the comedian Bob Mortimer so I read his first novel [The Satsuma Complex](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61401116-the-satsuma-complex) and I enjoyed it.  

In the non-fiction realm (which is really my forte), my favourite was a collection of David Graeber essays, [The Ultimate Hidden Truth of the World](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/205363978-the-ultimate-hidden-truth-of-the-world).  Inspiration to keep speaking up, keep organizing, and keep helping your neighbours out.

Finally, along with _The Rest is History_ podcast, which I listen to regularly, I read co-host Tom Holland's book [Rubicon: The Last Years of the Roman Republic](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91017.Rubicon).   It's both solid history and a great story; very readable once you get all the names straight.  The author is clear in the introduction that there are many parallels between Rome in 140AD and modern day America and it's born out every day in the news.  The wild thing is that Holland's book was published in 2007, in a time that seems so much milder compared to everything going on today.  It doesn't exactly give me solace knowing that our current travails have historical precedent, but it's good to know, I guess.

{% imagePlaceholder 'https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-ktJmqF5/0/L6f8VG4NZf7vdfWW5Sqnhb5rpdZtgrXXF4X3RSxVW/M/i-ktJmqF5-M.jpg',  'Selfie of Mark and Cindy under a flowering cherry tree', 'two love birds, winter, spring, summer and fall' %}
---

There we go.  The New Years Letter sent well before the equinox. I hope you're OK and haven't fallen into the trap of despair.  There is much to do.  What did Chief Dan George say?  [Endeavour to Persevere](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=atzmdijMfRY).  

Let's keep in touch.  What have you been up to?

Best wishes,

Mark


