---
title: "Wednesday October 9, 2024"
date: 2024-10-09
---

The sun was shining as I left the Cedar Hill Rec Centre, so I decided to walk home.  There is something about a warm autumn day after a rain; the sun feels extra warm and everything is growing.  Me included; I stretched up to meet Ol' Sol as I walked.  

The majority of the walk is through Oaklands and Fernwood, two neighbourhoods that I love very much.  I took my time, admiring the gardens, and even struck up a conversation with a woman who was walking in my direction.  Warm sunshine will do that.

When I got to Fernwood it was just after noon, and the neighbourhood was full of high school kids hanging out anywhere but Victoria High School.  It's neat that a school that big has shops and parks and community centres and a skateboard park nearby.  When I went to high school the parking lot cleared out as soon as the bell rang.  We had to drive over to Albert Street or Regent Park Mall.  Check that -- we chose to.  It was easier than walking and we had a huge parking lot.  From the day I got my license, I avoided walking at all costs until I was nearly 50.  So many wasted opportunities to feel the world around me.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-s5WpzX3/0/K9245ZgW64XB8tSWkKrn954df6jG5mXwNgXr6NxMP/X2/20241009_091449-X2.jpg", "a tiny cluster of pale white fall crocuses, Victoria", "First time I've seen these tiny crocuses" %}
{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-VwBdqmP/0/K3qGjrT6CF7BNGMmqhCRgsqQ8KBJXD9cqjK6P3vMH/X3/20241009_120337-X3.jpg", "two clumps of golden bamboo in a front garden, Victoria", "lovely golden bamboo" %}