---
title: "Friday September 6, 2024"
date: 2024-09-06
---
It was another hot one today so I got out for a walk in the morning, setting out on a quest for some on-sale orange juice for Cindy.  I headed over to Cook Street, picking the shadiest side of the streets, until I got to the Root Cellar for an air conditioned ice bath.  Root Cellar is my anchor point; the most expensive place in town in almost all cases.  Anything else would count as "on-sale".

From Root Cellar I went down Cook to Dallas Road.  It was really heating up so I relished the cool breeze that hit once I got one block from the ocean.  It's truly lovely.  I drank up the breeze and then headed along the walking path, west to Menzies Street.

I still can't get over how lucky we are to live so close to the ocean, where I can catch a cool breeze and check out the tides.  It was calm today, with the water like glass and only broken up by boat of all sizes.  Small fishing boats, a whale watching boat, a tugboat pulling a barge, a massive container ship and more between my vantage point and the Olympic Mountains.  The mountains were covered in cloud, so it felt like I was out in a calm sea, even though I was still on the shore.

From Menzies, it was inland to the grocery store where I found legitimate on-sale OJ ($2.50 off!) and then tracked back home by way of the good book boxes.  

{% imagePlaceholder "./img/20240905_135548.jpg", "Tall, orange dahlias growing in a neighbour's front garden", "Dahlias may be my new favourite flower."%}

{% imagePlaceholder "./img/20240906_115843.jpg", "a jet of water shooting out of the street, due to a water main break, just off Cook Street", "This water main break closed the Cook St. Starbucks today."%}