---
title: "Saturday September 28, 2024"
date: 2024-09-28
---
Saturday! It was a slightly overcast, slightly cool, dead calm morning so we put on our shoes and headed out to Dallas Road.  Walking through Beacon Hill Park, we heard two crows chasing something off and then saw what it was -- a big, brown hawk.  The hawk perched on a nearby branch without a care in the world as I tried to get a good photo.  But the colours on this guy matched the tree so well, nothing really turned out.  I'll add my best grainy result, but it's a blur.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-ccB9TRg/0/MRZtdvWRD2QHDhWwD798fkCwrW3NqXM7WPCfpmGG7/XL/20240928_102322-XL.jpg", "a brown and white hawk sitting on a high branch, Beacon Hill Park, Victoria","beautiful and deadly"%}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-smgN7T5/0/LbH6ShqkqzgL5gtBDZ4NQnjgdzMzWNzFpht6q8RWr/X3/20240928_103035-X3.jpg", "a vibrant fall flower bed, Beacon Hill Park, Victoria","still glorious at the end of september"%}

We followed Dallas Road all the way to Ross Bay, then went up to Fairfield for a quick stop at the drug store.  We spotted eight deer hanging out at the cemetary.  There are always deer in the cemetary; I bet they're known as the Ross Bay Cemetary Herd.  

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-7kPDVnc/0/KShTXFVFLw3zMdzLN2Ww6XxTC2K7f64jvxTfLNNkr/X2/20240928_110813-X2.jpg", "small placards at a newly planted native plant garden next to Ross Bay Cemetary, Victoria","new native plant garden near ross bay cemetary!"%}

Gonzales Beach was skunky, so we carried on to McNeil Bay and then Delish for lunch.  The ocean was like glass the entire time, grey-black and still.  Although there were clouds overhead, the mountains were clear, and we got a great view of Mount Baker from King George Terrace.  

After lunch, we walked over to Oak Bay and then took the bus home.  This route is one of my favourite walks in Victoria.  The ocean and mountains are lovely, we always see wildlife, and the homes and gardens along the way are all beautiful.  Often far too large, but beautiful.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-Z5MB7RM/0/K3MK4CtN4KxhZZMDQPqScSrbdWTv6DZgrPGwP2WPX/X3/20240928_140211-X3.jpg", "Two trees with brilliant red leaves, Oak Bay Avenue","Sure signs of autumn!"%}