---
title: "Monday September 30, 2024"
date: 2024-09-30
---
Truth and Reconciliation Day, so we walked over to Royal Athletic Park for the South Island Powwow.  It's been reported that we were two of 11,000 people who came out.  What a huge change from the first powwow four years ago, when they had one food truck and a handful of dancers (and 7000 spectators, to be fair.)  Watching this take off fills my heart.

There was a bike parade to the park, organized by Capital Bike and we met up with the cyclists on our walk.  There must have been 1000 bikes on the road.  It took 10 minutes for them all to pass us, which enraged at least three people.  One was in a big truck, one on foot and one on a bicycle!  I don't know if they were racist, impatient or both, but they did not like having to wait for the parade to pass.  I was instantly angry with them, but didn't say anything.  

The powwow was brilliant.  At least eight drum circles, dozens and dozens of dancers, so much art and food and people.  And with all the fun and celebrations, they didn't forget what today was all about.  They did a special dance honouring survivors and their families and the people being honoured were visibly moved.  Good, healing medicine.

So my nature today was of a human kind.  Although I will say that, even though cloud was forecast, it was a brilliant sunny day for the fourth year in a row.  And we saw some of the most incredibly bright red trees on the walk to the park, with more birdsong as we passed the trees than one normally hears out here. It was a good day for singing happy songs, whether human or bird.

{% imagePlaceholder "./img/20240930_114116.jpg", "two tall trees with bright red leaves, Rupert Terrace, Victoria","Brilliant red, brilliant birdsong"%}

{% imagePlaceholder "./img/20240930_125021.jpg", "the powwow circle full of people, some in regalia but most in orange t-shirts, dancing and intertribal round dance","So many happy dancers"%}


