---
title: "Thursday, December 12, 2024"
date: 2024-12-12
---

The sun is trying hard to poke through but by and large, it's a grey, dry day.  It was a day of many errands, to the grocery store for milks, to Phillip's for soda, to bulk barn for baking supplies and Supply for hobby supplies.  More stockpiling.

I stopped for lunch at UP and had a visit with the crew.  It's been a combination of chaos and mayhem in the two weeks since I was working there.  Folks off sick, others quitting.  Back to normal, I guess.  My buddies in the back were hopeful I was coming back, but that's not going to happen.  

So it was a city day, even with three walks.  Some songbirds, a seagull or two, possibly a goose.  There are reports of orca sightings inside Inner Harbour, but I am not seeing them.  I'll have to stake out a spot for a longer look.

I was shocked to see two trees in bloom at the corner of Belleville and Douglas.  These are the earliest trees every year, but this seems intensely early even for them.  It's not even 'next year'!  I can only think the trees are under stress.  They don't look the most robust of the boulevard trees, that's for sure.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-vRctgKx/0/KZLbtJ8bG28DHfzHJL2zNQRs6BjgtW82Fmmr2Tqd8/XL/20241212_143616-XL.jpg","tree on a street corner with pretty pink flowers", "beautiful, but it's December 12th!" %}

In the evening, we walked out to Imagine for their pizza night.  Excellent pizza once again and dessert was a pear linzer tart.  Delicious.  We walked home along Belleville to see all the Christmas lights at the Empress, the Legislature and the boats in the harbour.  It's a magical time of year.  We're lucky to live here.