---
title: "Friday July 26, 2024"
date: 2024-07-26
---
Cindy packed snacks, I got a car, and we were off early to Gowland-Tod Park for our weekly hike.  We hiked the McKenzie Bight trail, a loop of under 4km.

The trailhead is rather high up and the trail descends all the way down to sea level, following a narrow, deep cut with a creekbed in its middle, down to a calm, rocky beach on the Tod Inlet.  Since you're walking down the entire way, and then up, up, up to your car, you need to decide which path to take in each direction.  We kept to our left and took 'waterfall' side down. This side is narrower, more irregular and often quite steep.  Many sections have steps built to help you down.  

We did this hike in Spring several years ago and were treated to a huge waterfall halfway along the trail, and a rushing creek as a companion the rest of the way.  But this is the middle of another dry summer, so the creek was completely dry.  No waterfall for us today.  But still, the huge Douglas Firs were as impressive as ever, and the few old growth trees that missed the logger's saw were colossal. 

The inlet was superb as always.  We found a rocky ledge at the headland to sit and gaze across the water, try to spot seals and simply be content. And then we reluctantly hiked back to the car.  We had [a new bakery to visit in Sidney](), opened yesterday by our friend Leah, and wanted to arrive before she was sold out.

The hike up is a wide, smooth gravel road the goes steadily and consistently up.  Up, up, and more up.  But the forest was cool, the ferns were large and we even heard a tiny bit of water trickling into the creek.  And Cindy jumped five feet straight up when she saw a green snake on the road.  So even the 'dull' paths have beauty if you choose to look for it.


{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-2d3xzCG/0/NLSmMjtbzCZfR7KxCZrjDPwbX9X2ZVKnr9mJwG9g2/X3/20240726_095601-X3.jpg", "A massive Douglas Fir tree, McKenzie Bight Trail", "old man of the forest"%}
{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-Zvx9Scx/0/M8x6kVk23XDvbTS3tNd6sdpd3FZMqCGTq4ttXZv65/X3/20240726_100538-X3.jpg", "Cindy standing beside a 18 inch diameter, purple-red jellyfish, washed up on the beach", "The biggest jelly we've seen on the west coast"%}
{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-PNqWX37/0/NDJRkM4p6nNsFh2j5twJgSTM4BHGC6VRDhRzDxpjt/X3/20240726_103846-X3.jpg", "A large, well balanced arbutus tree, McKenzie Bight Trail", "The arbutus is my favourite tree"%}