---
title: "Saturday, December 7, 2024"
date: 2024-12-07
---

Craft fair day!  We FaceTimed with Robyn in the morning and then jumped in the car and headed up the peninsula to two Christmas Craft fairs.  

The forecast was for cloud, rain and very high winds and by George, we got the wind.  But the wind pushed the cloud away and then even the wind left, so by the time we got to Central Saanich, it was all bright sunshine, calm breezes and that awesome smell of pine needles after a rain.  I still cannot believe that we live in a place where we are a 20 minute walk from the ocean and a 20 minute drive from the forest, with a proper city in between.  It's paradise.  We wandered along all the back roads, barely approaching the speed limit, and breathing the forest air in deeply.

Our first stop was a large garden centre where they turned three greenhouses into vendor areas.  The greenhouse was actually a little too warm, but there were no complaints at all.  We just about bought a massive maple cutting board, considered a few other purchases, but in the end, went to the food trucks for pizza.  Good call.

Our second stop was just down the road at Junction Cidery.  The grounds and upper hall had some excellent vendors but the highlight was the 'cider garden' patio with three large fireplaces.  Pine scent and woodsmoke is the very, very best.  I wish I liked cider, because I could stay on that patio for a very long time.

Instead, we picked up some pottery and a second fruitcake from The Fox and Monocle, where I met Tracey the baker, who knew me from [the podcast](https://riseuppod.com).  I still get a thrill when folks recognize me from the show.

It was a grand day out.  On Thursday I said I needed more time by the water.  Today it's more time in the forest.  Luckily, there are both right here.