---
title: "Tuesday July 23, 2024"
date: 2024-07-23
---
I had a ton of calls today but prioritized going out in the morning for fun rather than the evening out of obligation.  I walked through Beacon Hill Park on the way to the grocery store on Cook Street.  

I was glad for the walk.  It was another gloriously sunny day and the winds from yesterday had died down.  The main pond is thick with water lilies and algae.  So much algae that the turtles on Turtle Log were covered in green.  They didn't seem to mind. 

I spied a newly bloomed tiger lily (more the cultivated kind rather than the wild ones in Saskatchewan) but most of the walk was about the wildlife.  In addition to the turtles, I saw a mama duck with two ducklings hanging out on a rock beside Big Pond, close enough to get a decent photo (I hope.)  And on the walk home I spent a solid minute watching a hummingbird dart in and out of a flower bed.  

The hummingbird lingered so long that I was tempted to get my camera set but one look at the screen was all it took for the hummingbird to disappear.  I can't document everything.  Some things are meant for memory and that's all.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-9ck43mr/0/NN6RfpTHFPRJXQFjkSXbHG4RpVbPtZbxrBLDm6vLb/X3/20240723_103024-X3.jpg", "Tiger Lilies at Beacon Hill Park", "domesticated tiger lilies"%}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-XBXWF9n/0/L6qQF4R7DJ8R3qWmbN6r35FVq5mtdGwKNTbK5Q2Tm/X3/20240723_103227-X3.jpg", "Two algae covered turtles on a log, surrounded by a thick layer of bright green algae", "artificially green backed turtles"%}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-gvXPfNB/0/MRVVqcvRHZkk3cRTNQZfdrRtQFdBBMhtqVW3q3jGc/X3/20240723_103329-X3.jpg", "A mother duck protecting two tiny ducklings on the edge of Big Pond in Beacon Hill Park", "mama and her babies"%}