---
title: "Saturday October 12, 2024"
date: 2024-10-12
---

It was a glorious, sunny day so we drove out to French Beach for our new Thanksgiving tradition - a campfire and wiener roast.   Made it to the park by 11:00 or so and had an early lunch of hot dogs and banana boats.  The fire pits were in high demand so we tagged off with another family once we were done and spent the rest of the afternoon at the beach.

We found the perfect log for reading and painting and soaking up the sun.  As we were about to leave, we noticed a whale spout across the strait and spent an extra 45 minutes tracking two whales.  They were quite far out but we could see them as they came up for air, especially every third or fourth breath when we could see their backs and tails as they started an especially deep dive.   It was glorious.

I am still stunned that we live in a place where we can see whales.  I imagined being an indigenous person when the wildlife was even more plentiful and what that must have been like.  Incredible.

On the way home, we stopped at the garden centre for bulbs and soil to fill my new pots.  Updates coming soon.  😊 

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-sx9xWFj/0/MGQBH3SdNdWd4Fk86xBcnPvzzRcDCBs8nnCBvFDW9/XL/frenchbeach-XL.jpg", "a view of the east side of french beach from my new favourite log", "Glorious French Beach" %}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-MkgTP3z/0/Kphh4gQKQqNJWkWGHjvcwBtgH73SCzQQbjshN4Hmc/X2/kite-X2.jpg", "a kite in the shape of a pirate ship with the Olympic Mountains in the background, French Beach", "Thar be pirates!" %}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-DpWFWt3/0/KPRKKhzp2g6dPK9Wv4CjPqdqBzjzbMqCXXn7xtkbp/X2/mousie-X2.jpg", "a low level selfie of Mark and Cindy looking extremely happy, French Beach", "We love it here" %}