---
title: "Saturday, November 16, 2024"
date: 2024-11-16
---

The sun only lasted one day.  

We were up early to take Iggy to the vet for the first appointment of the day.  It was already drizzling.  By the time she was all checked out and vaccinated, it was raining more steadily.  By the time we got home, the rain was socked in for the day.

So at this point, you'd think we'd hunker down for indoor projects.  We did, for the most part, but I also went out in the rain twice more.  After lunch I walked over to UP to say goodbye to the sisters, who fly out tomorrow morning.  Got the last minute adjustments so I can cover for them in the mornings.  It will all be fine.  There were quite a few people downtown.  Not tourist season busy, not even Holiday Season busy, but there was a steady hum of people.  And with the bridge being up for a ship to pass underneath, complete traffic gridlock.  I'm glad I am a committed pedestrian.

Later in the afternoon, we scurried across the street to a craft sale at the museum, focused on new immigrant food and handicrafts.  Going to the museum is always a jarring experience.  It's so close but there are two major transitions within 100 metres.  First we jaywalk across a busy street and are immediately in Thunderbird Park, beside the Big House, among the towering totem poles.  They are especially brooding, powerful and wonderous on a dark, drizzly day.  And then it's only a few steps along a winding path to the front doors of the Royal BC Museum.  Warmth and people and, today at least, mariachi music and colourful dancers.  

As I write this, I notice that I now have a clear line of sight to the Inner Harbour.  The Big Oak has shed all its leaves.  If either the Coho or Skipper ferries were in port, I could see them from my chair.  They aren't here now, so I can focus on the green grass of Laurel Point beyond the harbour.  This is high season for Laurel Point; it's brown during the dought of summer, but springs back as soon as the fall rains come.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-rPLbfKL/0/MMBXbXHPRDQrGQnXDcKtP8fK2wf8WG9qpSG6TL4gx/XL/20241117_094911-XL.jpg" , "the Big Oak outside my window, with no more leaves", "my seasonal barometer, mid-November edition"%}