---
title: "Saturday July 20, 2024"
date: 2024-07-20
---
There's lots of nature on Moss Street.  Smartly tended front gardens, huge trees, pollinator plants and, when heading south, a constant view of the Olympic Mountains.  We got a full view of it today, alongside tens of thousands of other art lovers, for today was the annual Art Gallery of Victoria [Paint-In](https://aggv.ca/art-gallery-paint-in-2024/)!

We started at the 'top', on Fort Street and meandered down to Dallas Road and the water, stopping at the 150 or so artist's tents along the way.  What beautiful art to go with the fine day.  There seemed to be more watercolour painters than last year, and my favourite print maker was there too.  

It's so inspiring to see how these artists see nature and express it on the canvas. One will be hyper-realistic, the next abstract.  One will use muted colours and the other is popping with colours that simply don't exist in nature but work perfectly.

I'm trying to do something similar, but with words.  So far, I'm not exactly excelling at it, but it's a start.  I'm trying to learn a vocabulary that goes beyond 'lovely' and 'fine'.  

One thing I learned was that if my balcony tomatoes are lacking pollinators, I could do worse than plant some lavender up here.  The lavender along Moss Street is all in bloom and covered in bees, which was lovely and fine and encouraging as well.

In the evening, we walked over to Finest at Sea for supper and I saw a gorgeous all-yellow _Red Hot Poker._  I've only seen the red and yellow version before so this was a treat.

{% imagePlaceholder "./img/20240720_174015.jpg", "A 'Red Hot Poker' flower that is all yellow, instead of red and yellow."%}