---
title: "Wednesday October 16, 2024"
date: 2024-10-16
---

Glorious sunshine today so after my morning stamp meetup, I took an hour to walk home through Oaklands and Fernwood.  It's important to stay in the sunshine when we have it.  I grew an inch and my soul filled up too.

I love my balcony garden, but it doesn't compare to some of the amazing gardens on every block in this city.  I walked through a park where I was able to peek in some back yards and found the most amazing vegetable gardens.  Jalepenos in raised beds that looked so healthy it could still be July.  Massive strawberry plants in pots.  Brilliant.  I also saw a fall crocus I haven't seen before.  Tiny bursts of colour.

By the time I got home the wind had picked up and I was getting a chill.  Can't get sweaty this time of year, because if I do, I will eventually get a chill then bonk.  It's layering season, for sure.

The crocuses inspired me to get my fall bulbs planted.  Garlic, tulips and crocuses are now in my reclaimed pots.  I was a little short of potting soil, so a few pots are only half full, but the bulbs are at the right depth so I should be fine.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-MqmpT44/0/LSJ5VnGNTP74twZ9dNnMx6FC9bsCv5mPWN4qLQsj7/X3/20241016_120409-X3.jpg", "Robust strawberries and peppers in a backyard garden", "So beautiful and prolific" %}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-PbKtHxZ/0/LQb6LK62Vhtmxh7vgLc5DjGLFk7PLK98LsdDD3Q2m/X3/20241016_121427-X3.jpg", "Tiny and delicate fall crocuses against a stone garden wall", "So beautiful and delicate" %}