---
title: "Sunday August 4, 2024"
date: 2024-08-04
---
Robyn is here visiting so of course the first thing we did was walk up to Jam for brunch.  Belly very full and wallet very light, we wandered home down Government Street.  I got to admire all the flowers at the Empress and the boats in the harbour while Robyn and Cindy scoped out maple syrup.

The afternoon featured a walk to the grocery store for a few Olympic watching supplies.  The standout feature of this walk was the rosemary bush by the health clinic.  It's growing at an incredible rate this year.  The weather must be perfect for rosemary this summer.

I am realizing that my interactions with nature are far different than the book that inspired this diary.  I don't go for daily 5 mile hikes in the countryside.  I live in the centre of the city.  I work and worry and run errands.  But I do seek out nature at every turn and I do find it, even if it's in very small doses.

And some days, like today, I find nature on my balcony.  I planted all the seedlings I got from the seedling distribution yesterday.  The snap peas are planted and the trellis re-established.  The broccoli is in a 4" pot and thriving.  And the lettuce is in 2" pots for now, until the gazanias bloom again.  I was going to pull the gazanias up and replace them with the lettuce, but I noticed that they are ready to bloom one more time.  Each plant has some large flower buds ready to grow out and open up.  I really want to see that.  And besides, the lettuce is tiny.  They can last 3 weeks in the pots easily.  
