---
title: "Weeknote: December 16-21, 2024"
date: 2024-12-23
---

I seem to be settling into a pattern.  Up later than I'd like, toodle about in the morning, run errands just before lunch and, thanks to sunset just after 4pm, start making supper around 3 o'clock.   

I admit it.  I'm cocooning.  I am prone to the winter blues and it's hitting me with all the grey skies.  That mixture of an inbox full of 'best of' lists and a shelf full of half-finished projects leaves me twisted up inside.  I should be creating, instead I don't even keep my diary up.

I did make it outside though.  Quite often actually.  Part of the fun of living where we do is my errands can take me in three different directions, which translates to three different walks.  So I've been off to check the book boxes in James Bay, downtown to pick up cold meds, Cook Street for some produce, and so on.  

On Tuesday I even did a proper nature walk through Beacon Hill Park, to make sure it was still there.  It was.  My timing was off a little however, so when I got to Dallas Road, the mountains were all behind thick clouds.  That's OK.  The birds and tiny winter flowers more than made up for it.  When you don't have the long views, relish the short views.

Speaking of birds, the tiny songbirds are out in force this week.  I could hear them through the closed windows most mornings, and I'd rush to open the patio door a crack for a better listen. They must be in the Big Oak, but I can't see them, even though there are no leaves to hide them.  It's incredible what you can hear when the buses and leaf blowers are silent.

On Wednesday the sun was out for the most part so I did the big walk home from Cedar Hill after my morning get-together with the stamp folks.  The mountains were clear as day, and with the strange tilt you get in Saanich, they were huge, towering over downtown Victoria far below in the distance.  I kept to the sunny, best sheltered side of the road all the way home.  It was a wonderful, much needed walk.

Thursday was a wash out, but Friday was grey, warm and somewhat calm, so I spent some time on the balcony.  The last of the carrots are pulled, washed and in the fridge.  The flowers are also pulled up after an extra long season of colour.  So all I have left is the two spring broccoli plants, one massive and the other hanging on tenaciously, and all the spring bulbs.  

I'm confused about whether or not to water the bulbs.  They are just barely poking up, which I think means I need to keep them moist but not wet.  

Cindy's off work for the next two weeks so we'll be having more adventures.  But the first few days are all about recovery for her.  So I went out by myself on Saturday to pick up some library holds and take a spin around the bookshops.  It was surprisingly warm.  +11C feels far warmer than +6C, although both look the same through the window.  I need to remember that it's not cold out, and get more fresh air.  I can cocoon for 22 hours a day, but those two hours outside will pay benefits.

