---
title: "Monday, December 23, 2024"
date: 2024-12-23
---

It pounded rain overnight, and was more was forecast for the afternoon, so we got in the morning, in between storms.  We did a loop through Beacon Hill Park, then down Dallas Road to Ross Bay, before looping home via the side streets in Fairfield.  

It was a very pleasant walk.  The parks simply can't get any greener with all the rain, and we stayed on the hard paths because the ground is saturated.  Everything smelled fresh and sweet and full of life.  The peacocks were out in force in the park, uninterested in the smattering of humans walking through the park.

{%imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-S5XTMmq/0/NdV62zfxpK2RHPvGhBcgvBLsRPgncsKT7zrm9z5c9/XL/20241223_095719-XL.jpg", "a brilliant blue, adult peacock wandering on the bright green grass, Beacon Hill Park, Victoria", "this is the peacock's park now"%}

We got a real sense of the recent active weather as we walked along Ross Bay.  The tide was very high, leaving the tiniest strip of rocky beach.  But what beach there was, was totally covered in drifting logs.  Everything was in motion, with more heavy logs rocking up on shore.  Powerful stuff.

{%imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-PzQghnK/0/LLFt53sSX8ScwvbS5DZbhcMK8cnT5DQJv8L886776/X3/20241223_102503-X3.jpg", "A beach full of tangled driftwood logs jammed up all along Ross Bay Beach", "Ross Bay Beach"%}

We stopped at Root Cellar on the way home and picked up a chicken to roast for Christmas, then spent the remainder of our walk feeling grateful to live in a place where you can walk through a manicured park, along a rugged, stormy beach, and also stop at the drug store and grocery store for a roasting hen, all in the span of an hour or so.  We're so lucky to live here.