---
title: "Thursday April 3, 2025"
date: 2025-04-03
---

An absolutely lovely spring day, clear, warm and calm.  I scrambled out of the apartment after lunch and headed toward Moss Street for a look at the cherry trees and was not disappointed.  

Today is as close to Peak Cherry Tree season as I'll find this year.  The trees were packed together and full of blooms all along Southgate, Vancouver, Oscar and Moss, and the side streets as well.  My photos couldn't do them justice so I just walked slowly along instead and tried to etch each scene in my memory.

Rather than take Dallas Road, I returned home along May Street and through Beacon Hill Park.  I spotted two Northern Flickers on the grass ahead of me, which were new additions to my bird list.

I haven't been in the park for over two weeks and it's transformed once again.  Trees in bloom, the plants in the sundial garden have doubled in size and the herons are back in huge numbers.  The cruise ships are also back, so the park was full of people experiencing it for the first time.  I wanted to take everyone on a guided tour but I kept quiet and soaked it all in with a goofy grin on my face.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-CfTWmrr/0/M6dk7pV6gWxv4Vh2MXrt7PnLLbJfcqcQwBqMSkrRs/X3/i-CfTWmrr-X3.jpg", "spring flower bed, Beacon Hill Park","flower beds are filling in"%}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-bZtR8DP/0/K3vKbvCkjsdCSzWcChwdDgZnhPTRK3pfxxcCfKL7z/X2/i-bZtR8DP-X2.jpg", "male pea fowl huddled in a garden bed, Beacon Hill Park","having a rest"%}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-gjbGmCC/0/KS23ts6pkgCdqWjZ3b7qc7qfpk3zZWTCZ8jqPXtXh/X3/i-gjbGmCC-X3.jpg", "mass planting of spring blubs, Beacon Hill Park","the more flowers the better"%}