---
title: "Thursday, June 12 - Wednesday, June 18, 2025"
date: 2025-06-18
---

It's been a wild week, that's all I'm saying.  We've had all the weather, from hot and sunny to cold and windy and back to sunny again.  But work and family have been all over the place so my walks have been sporadic and my notes are non-existent.  So once again I'm recording rapidly fading memories.

Saturday was FernFest, so we headed up to Fernwood to walk about and check out the funky vendors.  The crowds were a bit much for me, if I'm honest.  Crowded spaces don't give me as much joy as they used to.  We walked past the gardens at the Compost Education Centre and my gosh they are in great shape.  So many healthy, robust plants.  I can really notice the difference between a garden in full sun all day and my balcony that only receives late afternoon sun.  My plants are taller, frailer and with less actual fruit.  I'm pleased with my garden but it's performing about as well as I can expect given the conditions.

I spent Father's Day Sunday bowling in the Men's Singles tournament.  It was fun, but honestly more bowling than I need.  I'm taking it easier now and not trying to get out there five days per week any more.

And then it got really scrambled.  Cin had to fly to Saskatchewan on no notice, and I'm home with the cat.  I've been inside working and getting updates from Cin, leaving for an hour or so per day for some errands, but that's about it.  The weather has been brutal (cold, cloudy and blowing a gale) so I'm not missing much, but I miss being outdoors nonetheless.

And yet, there are still some small highlights:

- there are pods forming on the peas and I spy one tomato on the Early Girl
- a hummingbird came to hang out on the balcony for a bit on Wednesday
- I added the swallows who are nesting at the bowls club to my Life List

I really wanted to end this diary with a bang, and I still might.  But this will do for now.