---
title: "Sunday, January 5, 2025"
date: 2025-01-05
---

The rain stopped long enough for a proper walk today.  Cin is better but still house-bound, so I headed out alone for a solid walk through Beacon Hill Park, along Dallas Road, around Clover Point and Ross Bay, then back home via Fairfield and Cook Street Village.  

I wasn't the only one out enjoying a bit of dry.  Walkers of all description were out and about, including several joggers and half a million dogs.  The skies were still a solid grey until I made it to the water, and saw a narrow strip of gold across the strait, just over the top of the mountains.  That's the most I've seen of ol' Sol in a week.

Still, the moisture and now the warmer temperatures is spurring on some growth.  Spring bulbs are beginning to shoot green spikes up from the mud.  The rhododendron buds are bigger and a different colour from the leaves; they'll be opening soon.  And the bamboo, dogwoods and other shrubs are showing off their bark to great effect.

On the walk through Fairfield, I saw my first snowdrops of the year and then, as I crossed onto Howe Street, I saw a rhododendron in bloom!  It was in a bare front yard, so may be reacting to building stress, but my goodness the blooms were delightful to see.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-69DxZQG/0/K7jRcQPR5Fwp2db4DVXd5tSktZ2rHwtsRP7Khf4tv/X4/i-69DxZQG-X4.jpg", "the first snowdrops I've seen in 2025, from a front garden in Fairfield, Victoria BC", "Snowdrops!" %}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-gqm5RKb/0/KJzFbdRHNgfJXw3nNkSHRSRFb5nMtH89ch5HM7Shd/X4/i-gqm5RKb-X4.jpg", "a small rhododendron bush in bloom, with delicate pink and white flowers, Fairfield, Victoria BC", "Rhododendrons!" %}
