---
title: "Wednesday April 9, 2025"
date: 2025-04-09
---

I stayed home from my weekly stamp meetup but had a fun outdoor day nonetheless.  The skies are clearing and I took advantage of a calmer day to seed a few veggies.  Two small rows of carrots and two of lettuce. Although I might be trampling the carrots with pea seeds soon.  It all depends how long the broccoli plant stays around.

In the afternoon, I went for a walk around Cook Street and home through Beacon Hill Park.  Much has changed in a week.  The lawns are full of wild daisies, the peonies are up two feet above ground already, and the flower beds are filling in nicely.  I lingered on a sunny bench to read a bit and soak in some rays.  Truly lovely.

As I left the park, I spotted a hummingbird beside the path that stuck around for a good 10 minutes, hovering beside a rhododendron bush, then to a nearby tree, and back again.  I've not seen one stick around for that long before.  The sight of a tiny hummingbird so close to the great blue herons in their nests make for quite the contrast!

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-MwFcLsB/0/KQPthQ8M7LxpbPwDn5B3zTvBR6BtTJqP8kF4tVCtD/X3/i-MwFcLsB-X3.jpg", "swathe of wild daisies in the grass, Beacon Hill Park","gotta enjoy them before they get the mowers out"%}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-wGJbBgs/0/LD3hhGPbS9J2RZ2hGDxfW9N95VjpLM2jZJKbKn2BW/X3/i-wGJbBgs-X3.jpg","Peony stems pushing through the ground, Beacon Hill Park","smart supports which were added very early" %}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-FfGHPVp/0/LLH2vrQChMb26kVsCg96x6SKm423PDXsknsfNvFT3/X3/i-FfGHPVp-X3.jpg", "cherry tree in full bloom, with a huge oak branch above and a leafy willow behind, Beacon Hill Park", "love the composition of the three trees" %}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-VN9B9pz/0/MgxRJgRqVqS6W8DmbnPnJKxNLHtj66bWZbBS477xB/X3/i-VN9B9pz-X3.jpg", "small rhododendron bush with huge, deep red blooms, Beacon Hill Park","I've been waiting for this bush to bloom for weeks" %}