---
title: "Sunday June 1, 2025"
date: 2025-06-01
---

We were planning on taking a long bike ride, but both Cindy and I were tired so decided to take a long walk instead.  We headed out through Fairfield after lunch and made our way to the Chinese Cemetery in the lowlands past Gonzales Bay.  It's a lovely micro-neighbourhood and every time we walk through there we dream of buying one of the small houses with million dollar views.  We found the communal adirondack chairs on the rocks just east of the cemetery and spent a relaxing time watching the boats sail by.

It was a lovely day; chilly in the shade or when the breeze kicked up, but quite warm in sheltered sunshine.  Foxgloves and delphiniums are coming into bloom and are so much fun to look at, being eye level and all.

The highlight of the walk home was stopping to watch a Great Blue Heron fishing in Ross Bay.  He stood dead still for the longest time, letting me take several pictures, before thrusting his long beak under the water and pulling up a fish.  And then, moments later, a second fish.  

We went home via Beacon Hill Park and spotted several heron chicks in their nests far, far overhead.  I wonder if our friend from Ross Bay saved some fish for the kids to eat?  I'm sure he did.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-X2kmwDw/0/NVDT3KJF8BBN7ZnD9f5Cdb5FF4B5qWpN3hGK4dCZb/XL/i-X2kmwDw-XL.jpg","Great blue heron standing in a few inches of water, moments before spearing a fish","fishing heron" %}

PS - I notice my phone camera is skewing colours quite a bit.  This foxglove is much more purple in real life!


{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-jjRVbW5/0/NBd8XcM7GvVBVbmTctPxcDRqqg3wr9W9s4VpCmRqT/XL/i-jjRVbW5-XL.jpg","Pinky purple foxgloves from a neighbour's garden","pink or purple?" %}