---
title: "Sunday May 4 - Wednesday May 7, 2025"
date: 2025-05-07
---

Not a lot of walking so far this week, even though the weather was excellent.

Sunday was about taking Ben back to the ferry but since that required a car, we took a detour to Willows Beach.  Lots of folks out but it was cool enough to force us to find a sheltered spot in the sunshine.

Monday was more garden action.  I replaced the bulbs in the tomato pot with the new tomato plant I bought at the farmer's market.  I'm pulling the bulbs too early, but I hope they survive and grow next year.  My plan for next winter is to omit garlic and replace them with spring flower bulbs, so these bulbs will have a permanent home.  I'll keep you posted in 10 months whether they survived.

We found two small planter boxes during the building's "spring cleaning" day which are now home to carrots.  Well, carrot seed.  I tried spacing them properly so they don't require much thinning, but I still got three seeds in most of the holes.  I'm excited to see what happened.

Tuesday was a big bus day, as I went out to Langford for a dentist appointment.  Not a fun trip but I like my dentist so journey out to the burbs for it.  It was a glorious spring day and I spent it in big box land.  At least every big box has a garden centre this time of year, full of marigolds and petunias and hanging baskets in full bloom.  The entire ride home, I kept thinking of Joni Mitchell.  We really have paved paradise and put up a parking lot.

On Wednesday, I boogied up to Cedar Hill on a strangely warm spring morning.  I say strangely because it was quite brisk in the shade, but when the sun poked out it was downright hot.  The walk along Gosworth in the early morning was brilliant as usual; peaceful birdsong and fragrant blooms. The lilacs are well open and the tulips are giving way to alliums.  Lovely stuff.

I made my final garden purchase of the year (I think!) before catching the bus home -- a large pot for the bamboo.  It's a touch smaller than I hoped but the next size up was far too large so it will do.

I didn't transplant the bamboo yet because the fiercest windstorm in months blew through in the afternoon.  The gusts were so strong it blew my baby tomato over, but thankfully there was no permanent damage to the tender plant.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-zzKCL8v/0/LSrRqWPqsJnFGjWZDxTZbRcxNwBpxFkbxhL4gqGrV/X3/i-zzKCL8v-X3.jpg","fine, purple allium flowers in a fence border, Oaklands, Victoria.","alliums in oaklands" %}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-ssL5B5v/0/Mr2TZ27ZBhdVD5Js3xGFTgZmDXn4zgmkqwZVDZR5g/X3/i-ssL5B5v-X3.jpg","close up photo of a cluster of purple lilac flowers, Oaklands, Victoria.","the lilacs were extra fragrant this morning" %}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-njfDNkj/0/KMBrRHJxrLhMG8vmQM4D4Mb3BBmTH5QzhsJjkG7gG/X3/i-njfDNkj-X3.jpg","my new bamboo pot, beside the bamboo plant.  The new pot is only slightly larger than the existing pot.","I hope the new pot is big enough" %}