---
title: "Friday, January 24, 2025"
date: 2025-01-24
---

This string of sunny days is officially remarkable.  Just not supposed to happen here in January.  But I'll take it.  Frosty mornings and brilliant sunshine means I don't get much done before I'm pulling my jacket on and running outside.

Today it was a trip through Beacon Hill Park and Fairfield.  The kids were off school for the day, so there were several families feeding ducks and peacocks.  The peacocks look extremely healthy; there were nearly two dozen of them in the sundial garden, along with twice as many ducks, mobbing three toddlers with their bags of bird feed.  I find this to be risky business, but it's a great photo op, so worth it I guess.

Did I mention it was chilly?  There was ice on the pond, so those ducks got to stand on ice as they mobbed the feed-bearing toddlers on shore.  I'd say the pond was still 40% covered as I walked past, but it was melting fast.

The sea was calm, but the clouds still shrouded the Olympic Mountains.  I haven't seen them in a while.  But off in the distance, I could see the line of mainland mountains quite clearly.  I bet Cindy could see Mt. Baker from her work if they went to the beach today.

As I got closer to home, I heard a mass of birdsong in a tree near Quadra Street.  I stopped for a long look to count the birds, but only saw two.  If two birds can make that much music, I wish I could travel back to when thousands of songbirds filled the air.  It must have been glorious.