---
title: "Wednesday April 23, 2025"
date: 2025-04-23
---

I woke up stiff and sore but headed out to Cedar Hill anyway.  Today's trip was less about the meetup and more about buying more garden supplies.  I bought a bunch of drip trays for the recycled pots that hold my winter bulbs.  They spent the winter all jammed together on a rubber floor mat but now are elegantly spread across the balcony.  Nice.

The birds seem to like the new configuration.  A gorgeous hummingbird came by to check things out, all blue-green with a brilliant red head.  I've never seen anything so beautiful.

In the afternoon, I went for a stroll through Beacon Hill Park and spotted a huge heron chilling near the stone bridge.  It was a great day for chilling, and not just for herons.  The logs were full of turtles sunning themselves, the ducks were splashing about in the ponds and every bench was full of people relaxing and soaking up the sunshine.  The camas, my favourite native plant, is thick with blue and purple blooms. Another perfect spring day.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-vRhfRBB/0/NfSNGD99d2w2cFfd2BZVwxpj83H2kqppCsjLg4KJ7/X3/i-vRhfRBB-X3.jpg", "great blue heron, standing knee deep in the water, Beacon Hill Park", "such a gorgeous heron" %}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-gjpZC39/0/MMmfZBRBqgX86bpHVvhF2ssLncXnRMFFbRPkJrkV9/X3/i-gjpZC39-X3.jpg", "a swath of blue camas at the base of a flowering magnolia tree, with falling petals from the magnolia all mixed in, Beacon Hill Park", "I want to lie in these beautiful petals" %}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-Kb6LJn6/0/LHMJwHpcfbW7TJzjhGBfVM436DCMjT6m9HmGvgggg/X3/i-Kb6LJn6-X3.jpg", "another carpet of camas blossoms underneath a bright pink rhododendron, Beacon Hill Park", "lovely composition" %}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-JbvHmqz/0/K2rDPPHSWCZBz25K7M68k6B6xW3HBkcmW6H3vhhHv/X3/i-JbvHmqz-X3.jpg", "two beautiful specimen cherry trees, in the middle of a large manicured lawn, with space to spread wide and tall, completely full of blossoms, Beacon Hill Park", "what a treat when trees have space to fully spread" %}