---
title: "Monday - Wednesday March 17-19, 2025"
date: 2025-03-19
---
We're on the move.  

My sister arrived from Saskatchewan just after midnight but even after sleeping in, we were able to go for a long walk around James Bay.  The trees are in full bloom, daffodils everywhere, and I was able to identify the hellibores that Monty writes about from the UK.  

Then it was our turn to fly to Saskatchewan on Tuesday, back home and back into winter.  Regina is still covered in a solid foot of snow, with layers of ice underneath.  It will take a while for all this to melt, but the forecast is such that we'll be around for most of the melting.

Cindy's mom still has bird and squirrel feeders in front of her picture window and it was full of sparrows and one hungry squirrel.  The squirrel makes quite a mess, but leaves enough spillage on the ground for two grey partridges, who came in the early evening to eat their fill.  

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-gQHZcnj/0/KcLDB8nG4w3RpW4GCG3QQ8QMqKpnHdftVw2tLHFCn/X3/i-gQHZcnj-X3.jpg","A snowy front yard on a bright morning, Regina, Saskatchewan","Lots of snow"%}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-htVXfrD/0/LDFBvFmjjsmFsRZhpdR8wV9QQMbGcRgcbggZH39Fx/X3/i-htVXfrD-X3.jpg","grey partridge at the base of a tree, with seeds scattered around, Regina Saskatchewan","gorgeous partridge"%}

On Wednesday we drove to Moose Jaw to see my dad.  As usual, there is less snow here.  As the day progressed and the temperatures rose to +5C or so, what snow there was began melting rapidly and the streets were turned into broken, pot-holed rivers.  Messy stuff.  Half the lawn outside Dad's window went from white to green in three hours.  

The forecast is for highs of +14C in the next few days, so I suspect most of the snow will be gone by the time we fly home next week.  In the meantime, we are desperate for a walk outside, somewhere the ice isn't too treacherous and away from the large, splashing trucks that everyone drives here.  

Cindy's feeling the shock of space here -- wide open spaces, extra wide streets, low houses, small trees, big skies. 

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-WxMgXHW/0/L3wDcjk99mgkMZmNQ8LXdvms5p4cMb2WFmFxtWJKh/X3/i-WxMgXHW-X3.jpg","Photo by Cindy, a lonely grain bin in the middle of a wide, snowy field, dwarfed by the expansive, bright blue sky, Trans Canada Highway between Regina and Moose Jaw Saskatchewan","(almost) nothing but snow and sky"%}
