---
title: "Tuesday June 2 - Friday June 6, 2025"
date: 2025-06-06
---
It was sunny and warm all week, warm enough to close the blinds in the afternoon so we don't overheat the apartment.  I spent most of the week at the bowling green or running errands around downtown, so my nature reports are somewhat limited.  My tan is bedding in but only from within a few blocks of the apartment.

I got further afield on Wednesday, when I rode my bike up to Cedar Hill for the final stamp meetup of the spring. The ride was surprisingly good.  I get all worked up about the hills but I took an indirect route around the steepest sections and was able to grind up the long, steady climbs without too much distress.  I can do this just fine, I just need to trick my mind into believing it.

The balcony garden is doing very well.  The cosmos and marigolds are especially awesome; larger plants and more blooms than I've ever had.  I fashioned aluminum foil collars for the lettuce to hopefully deter cutworms from killing the last six heads.  So far so good.  

The best bit about the garden is that the garlic plants are forming scapes!  Soon I will cut and eat the scapes, which should help the bulbs grow bigger, before letting the pots dry out and harvest begin.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-NBc6JZ2/0/KHkpdpb6xLcDPmGSjmBvhncfBVtVcmRTWL83tvBBj/X3/i-NBc6JZ2-X3.jpg", "deep red lilies from the garden surrounding the CP Lawn Bowling Green, Victoria BC","Not quite tiger lilies, but I love them" %}
