---
title: "Weeknote: February 21 - 28, 2025"
date: 2025-02-28
---
Oof.  I've really fallen behind with this diary.  In honesty, I've also fallen behind with my walks as well.

Spring has definitely arrived at the southern tip of our island.  The sun is shining more and ore, crocuses are blooming, trees are flowering.  The rains are still coming, but overnight.  I took my umbrella out once just in case, but it never left my pack.

So the entire week was taken up working and heading out for errands.  Not a pleasure walk in the bunch.  But the sun on my face was welcome and the signs of new growth around every corner filled me with cheer.

Part of this noticing has given me a new appreciation for my large window and thin glass.  Mornings are full of birdsong from the eye-level oaks, although the song comes from a mere two or three finches.  They are still louder than the busses passing underneath.  Only the sirens drown them out.

The white tree in Thunderbird Park is flowering and is clearly visible from the balcony as well.  Soon it will be blocked out by budding oaks, but for the next few weeks I have a clear view of its white blossoms with just enough pink to blur them a little.  Glorious.

The daffodils are outside full time again, fending for themselves and looking splendid.  And the potted crocuses are just beginning to flower, one tentative purple flower per pot so far.  Nothing too gaudy yet.

As March approaches I intend to get outside much more often.  It's warmer now (+13C today) and the sun seems to reach more places at warmer angles.  I must find time to enjoy this fresh new season and shake off the last of the winter gloom.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-L7fwkDD/0/NjFd7w6HtJb5RR6z5dh2hZs5pWNQR4frML5bSLwGm/X4/i-L7fwkDD-X4.jpg", "my potted daffodils in full bloom, looking tall and large","peak potted daffodils"%}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-mZkQ8th/0/MZ2msTmDzfZHDPrQdGhwx5JDFwgmHSq4c6vDwFJrs/X4/i-mZkQ8th-X4.jpg", "a tree full of pink 'cherry' blossoms along Blanshard Street","first blooming tree sighting of the season"%}
{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-nHFt76X/0/MW3J6zdKTsvxvfBbb5vVbCs5SVFM7qk9DLtWvvv9Z/X4/i-nHFt76X-X4.jpg", "the 'Helmcken House' tree, with tiny white blossoms, just about to unfurl, Thunderbird Park, Victoria","the White Tree beginning to bloom" %}
{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-4zjtDHm/0/KS98TXBcMFKm5Xbrvf5NHLZKvX7GtZkvJgrmhQtSS/X4/i-4zjtDHm-X4.jpg","yellow and purple crocuses in a garden at Cridge Park church, Victoria","clusters of crocuses all around me" %}
{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-XrLHJ8v/0/NPZ5R7xRrrDNCGcdLq32wDhBtj8LV2f3M2N6wsVD9/X4/i-XrLHJ8v-X4.jpg", "a single purple crocus opening in my balcony pot", "my crocuses are starting to flower!"%}
{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-Tp3wbHn/0/KW4kXwNZdmXX8JhmChsNX4nbGXbvmjnTvnn2VKxq9/X4/i-Tp3wbHn-X4.jpg","a white tree in full bloom, Humboldt Street, Victoria","Full Bloom"%}