---
title: "Wednesday, January 1, 2025"
date: 2025-01-01
---

Happy New Year!  It was dark grey and cloudy today but relatively dry, so I went for a solo stroll in the afternoon, through James Bay and back through Beacon Hill Park.  It was a quiet time, not many people out and very few cars too.  

The clouds were very low and dark, but that meant the land across the sea was clear, at least a third of the way up the mountainside.  It's funny how weather works; a clear day and the towns are covered in mist, but if the mist can collect into clouds, the towns are all visible.  

Beacon Hill Park was a joy.  Some of the water plants are starting to sprout in the mud beside the ponds.  They look like alien hatchlings, sprouting where nothing should grow and then unfurling in the most ungodly mess of huge green leaves.  I love them even as I'm repelled by them.

As I got to the turtle log, several hundred ducks all left the area in an orderly fashion, forming a feathered flotilla swimming to the other end of the pond.  I have no idea why the all decided to leave at once and head to the same place.  Maybe there was a meeting about to start.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-TmQZxDL/0/KqdDHBxng5rnbsmmjFjSSPmVB7HHvtxsD7W2q87w7/X3/20250101_151413-X3.jpg", "a green cluster of water plant sprouts breaking through the mud", "it's alive!!"%}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-VvT58SR/0/KrTXrfQppQ2QKJrW8Sv8mVR3tmhj6HHBjwLDhQNQL/X3/20250101_151215-X3.jpg", "metre-tall water plant sprouts, with large green leaves unfurling", "they get very large, very quickly"%}


