---
title: "Tuesday, July 1, 2025 - Reflections of a Year of Noticing "
date: 2025-07-01
---

It's July and that marks the end of my year-long nature diary project.  A year of getting out doors and noticing what is around me.  

So how did it go?  From an active lifestyle perspective, the year was a huge success.  I got outside nearly every single day.  I noticed the changing of the seasons, the progression of flowers, of trees and of all the plants throughout the year, and the seasonal changes in wildlife too.  It was especially thrilling to spot the first daffodils, or the earliest blooms on the rhododendrons, or the return of the herons in spring.  And, through our travels, I got to notice wildlife in other parts of the country as well.  That was a huge win.  

Noticing the world around me has become a stronger habit thanks to this intentional year.  With the help of the Merlin app and the plant identifier app, I have names for the birds I hear and the plants I spot.  I'm starting to notice new bird calls more often lately and that can only be a good thing.

And what of the writing?  Mixed reviews on that front.  I have 277 diary entries which isn't exactly daily, but that's still a very big number.  Although many of the entries, especially in the last three months, have been mundane at best.  But that's the point, in a way.  Every day, and every walk, isn't a brain bending revelation, but over the course of a year it adds up to some pretty remarkable stuff.

This past year, like any year, had its ebbs and flows.  As my mental health fluctuated, so did my willingness to go out for a ramble.  More and more walks were simply running errands or a short walk for a few blocks.  

I'm not sure if the weird brain space caused fewer walking adventures, or if fewer walking adventures caused a weird brain space. But what I really noticed was I was avoiding sitting down and writing about my day, walk or not.  I'm looking forward to writing less frequently, but with my whole heart, on topics beyond my daily routine.  That's my next intention, at least.

Time to put this project to bed.  It won't be my last walk or the last time I write about my walks, but I'll no longer feel guilty about not seeing something unique to write about every single day.  


