---
title: "Weeknote: February 11 - 18, 2025"
date: 2025-02-18
---

Argh.  It's been a strange week.  Cindy hurt her back mid-week, and my head has been in a bad space, so we've really stuck around home for the most part.  I've pretty much just popped out to run a few errands most days and haven't made any notes for writing in the diary.

On Wednesday, I did make the trek up to Cedar Hill for the stamp meetup, which was good.  The sun was out and it was crisp and frosty, so I stepped off the bus early and walked through Oaklands, soaking up the sun as I went.  

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-dBzRZmg/0/MWzCt28Vgjc6JLtCn7mh5CT8XQ549mVQBMhFxTmC6/XL/i-dBzRZmg-XL.jpg", "frosty grass and long shadows in Shakespeare Park, with mountains in the distance"%}

Thursday started off warm and sunny but by the afternoon it clouded over and was downright cold.  I got a lift up to a meeting at a house on Ten Mile Point which had some nice views over the water to Sidney, but it was a gloomy meeting and a gloomy ride and bus home.  And from there, the gloom continued inside.

We did make it out for a short, slow walk on Sunday, in the drizzle, for a late lunch at Irish Times, but beyond that I stayed indoors.  So that means it's time for a garden update.

My friend the ruby-capped kinglet came by for another visit in the daffodil pot.  And speaking of daffodils, I have three that are oh, so close to blooming!

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-KN4d4Wf/0/KfQdx4tcbNHLJZCxrX57WbjBfbC2nQpc8mjSq6gHg/X3/i-KN4d4Wf-X3.jpg", "update on my daffodil pot, with three flowers just about to open!" %}