---
title: "Monday June 2, 2025"
date: 2025-06-02
---

I got the most out of this beautiful early summer day.  Out early to get groceries; I walked to Thrifty Foods and back and was done my shopping by 9AM. The store is nicely empty at that time of day, but I still ran into the same woman and her cart three times.  Oh well.  The streets were clean and fresh and I reveled in the temperature differences between sun and shade.  Cool, then warm, then cool, then warm, all the way home.

I gave the garden a good water and did a bit of an assessment.  Overall, things are quite good.  The garlic is still strong, if a little thin.  The bamboo seems happy and the flowers are the best I've ever grown. 

The tomatoes are a mixed bag.  The Early Girl is quite leggy, if I'm honest, but has their first few flowers.  The second tomato is much stockier and appears to be healthier.  It's another case of buying my plants too early, I'm afraid, before the weather warms up enough.  The second tomato was purchased two weeks later and was half the size, and seems to have benefitted from the delay.

The lettuce is OK.  WE got quite a few feeds in before the cutworms did their foul work. Twelve plants are now six but they seem healthy.  We should get one more good cutting before it's time to replace them.

If I'm honest, the peas are a disappointment again this year.  Lots of green growth but no flowers yet.  I honestly think that planting starts early isn't the way to go here.  Better off direct seeding I think.  I plan to experiment more next year.

In the afternoon I went lawn bowling.  It was the perfect afternoon and, although I'm brand new at this, I think I'm a fair-weather bowler.  I made some of the best draws of the year (OK, it's only been two weeks) and even attempted a take-out.  But the highlight was watching a hummingbird hovering among the flowers that border the green.  I got a pretty clear photo - my first one ever!

I think I'm happier with the hummingbird shot than scoring three, all tight to the jack.  

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-GCGmdJp/1/KVdtkfCv4FwC5GmGCDhLgZV3szVxN3ZgH8wHSCnZ6/X2/i-GCGmdJp-X2.jpg","an iridescent green hummingbird in flight, hovering beside a purple delphinium","gorgeous!" %}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-T3wCjWK/0/KJ8cDF38QGsjjVdv3r5M6drpp3NCjPwqjXdLqJ8CR/X2/i-T3wCjWK-X2.jpg","three black lawn bowls clustered tight around the jack, with other bowls scattered around for context","this may never happen again, but I'm happy" %}
