---
title: "Saturday, January 11, 2025"
date: 2025-01-11
---
Glorious, warm sunshine all day today, and we were out in it early.  Cin and I took a slow walk through James Bay and out to the water along Dallas Road, stopping often to sit on a bench and soak up the rays.  Cindy's not at full health yet but is determined to build up some stamina.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-McXjnVr/0/MRmQzj6C9RmbP4qDzMZ3PHLF3dLsFhp4LDqrRmR7x/X4/i-McXjnVr-X4.jpg", "seaplane and cargo ship, Salish Sea, looking out toward Esquimalt from Dallas Road", "there was also an ocean canoe that I couldn't quite get into frame!" %}

At every stop along Dallas Road we spotted a hummingbird, sitting on the tiniest branch, the hovering above it before dive bombing down and out of sight.  I could watch them all day.  

Cin turned for home on Douglas Street and I continued on to Cook Street, hoping to stop and listen to the songbirds in the bushes at Beacon Hill Park.  I got an even better treat, as I spotted two bald eagles near the Big Totem.  One was perched on top and the second on a tree right next to the huge pole.  They were so high up that my camera phone couldn't capture their size and majesty, but Lord knows I tried. 

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-ZBZZjFW/0/KT8t5GkrQX6fFf6st4bL6wsRnvv5JRfVDgwrPbZWV/X4/i-ZBZZjFW-X4.jpg", "two bald eagles perched high overhead, Beacon Hill Park"%}

I went for another walk downtown in the afternoon, still in sunshine, still warmer than I have been in a long while.  I didn't really want to go home, but by 3pm ol' Sol's angle was so shallow that he wasn't throwing much heat, so I headed for home very, very content. 