---
title: "Saturday, January 25, 2025"
date: 2025-01-25
---

Saturday, sunshine and Cindy.  We got out of downtown near noon and took the bus out to Oak Bay Marina.  There was a pretty decent breeze blowing which chilled me right down, but the skies were so clear it didn't matter.  We walked around Turkey Point and stared at a crystal clear Mount Baker across the water.  The tiny mountains along the coast are likely quite tall, but they look like foothills compared to the singular, snowy, stunning peak.  

It was an exceptional day, since both the mainland mountains and the Olympics were crystal clear.  I could even see a second layer of Olympics that I hadn't seen before.  

We headed along the Beach Drive to Willows Beach and then to Cattle Point.  The wind was in our face the whole time.  Good for sailboats but rough for walkers, but I didn't mind a bit.  There was a regatta at Cadboro Bay that we could see from Willows Beach, a dozen or so boats milling about, then magically lining up and taking off toward Cadboro Bay.  We got to Cattle Point as they turned around their marker and sprinted back towards us, sails full to bursting with a tailwind.  Great fun for the sailors and for us as well.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-fpvp3Zp/0/Lpr9kpQvHBX82VbPTwZzQq4v5MLTCmwRrHK32H8BT/L/20250125_131123_crop-L.png", "Sailboats getting organized with Mount Baker in the background. Willows Beach, Oak Bay.", "Mount Baker overseeing the regatta" %}

Heading back inland, we stopped for extra sloppy burgers at the Willows fish shack, then to the Old Farm Market for our week's groceries, before sprinting back to the bus home.  We still had an hour or two of sun after getting home.  The days are definitely getting longer.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Posts/Diary/i-HmPXkjR/0/MqcGkV7sQ55W7Z6JnsSwKMSDXfV2LqMKqVWFddrgC/X2/20250125_143550_crop-X2.png", "A lawn covered in pale purple crocuses, in dappled sunlight due to the shadows of several large trees", "A scattered, splatter, smattering of crocuses" %}