---
title: "Saturday May 17, 2025"
date: 2025-05-17
---

The forecast for this Victoria Day long weekend is for cool and rainy, so we are taking advantage of whatever sun we can find.  Today was especially windy, so we avoided the sea and stayed inland, walking to the library and then over to Moss Street for the farmer's market. There's a new vendor selling Georgian and Ukranian food and it's stellar.  We bought sweets this time but there are some savoury pies that look amazing too.  We'll be back.

The trees just keep on blooming!  The chestnuts are pretty much finished, dropping thick carpets of petals on the ground under their wide canopies.  Now it's the long, yellow strands of the _Laburnum_ (golden chain tree) and the tight clusters of fragrant blueblossoms.  It never seems to end.

The irises are also out in force.  Now that I'm looking for them, the variety of colours is more impressive.  I took irises for granted, I guess.

We walked home through Beacon Hill Park, stopping for a few overs of cricket, some medieval LARPing and some great views of the herons in their high nests.  One of those moments where we can't believe there is so much nature and activity, year round, within two blocks of our apartment.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-JN57fZv/0/MWHcpgxDHdLWJqpRhP9q2D3DsLN3nLPDkXkzgrdwM/X3/i-JN57fZv-X3.jpg","close up of the long yellow petal clusters of a golden chain tree, Moss Street Market, Victoria","Magnificent yellow streamers" %}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-WwqZW2P/0/NRn4WPKV5xP42CKmGdzcpBg67MJd4MGpqHpLvvSqp/X3/i-WwqZW2P-X3.jpg","example of a Blueblossom in tree form, packed with tight blue flower clusters.","Blueblossom in tree form.  More often seen as a hedge" %}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-qpcGHmG/0/MgWPsFfSTpLTSm22HVDkbftD9M3WrqMt9rB5pMbrZ/X3/i-qpcGHmG-X3.jpg","delicate yellow, white and purple irises in a front garden","So fine and delicate!" %}