---
title: "Weeknote: April 24-30, 2025"
date: 2025-04-30
---
Argh.  I'm really falling out of the habit of writing every day.  My head just isn't on straight these days.  Although there have been some decent adventures outdoors.

Lots of the walks have been plant related.  I'm tracking down a larger pot for the bamboo, which is taking me all over the place.  I went out to Ross Bay Home Hardware on Friday, which was a huge success as a walk but didn't result in a pot.  I stopped for a snack at the Ross Bay beach and it was glorious.  Warm, full sun and calm water.  I tried to soak my feet but the rocky beach was too much for my feet, so I stumbled about a bit and ended up soaking both shoes somehow.  Ah well.  I saw an otter frolicking about which was a thrill.

Saturday was also sunny, +17C and Independent Book Store Day, so we stuck to the city.  Went to one book store, then hiked out to Burnside to check out a new fabric store, then back downtown for the open house at the lawn bowling club.  Great fun.   

Sunday was still glorious, so we walked out to Finest at Sea for a late lunch picnic on the grass, then a toodle out to the Breakwater.  The wind was starting to pick up and the water was getting choppy, so we didn't see much for sea life.  I keep hoping to spot an orca from the sea wall, but not today.

Monday was windy and rainy, but since then the sun is back out, although the temps are a little cooler.  That garden is growing along nicely.  The lettuce is pressing on the row covers, the peas are starting to move a little and the tomato is leafing out impressively in its reemay cocoon.  We found two patio planters in the recycling, so I get to go plant shopping again!  I thought I was done for the year but not anymore.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-S7psbLr/0/Kv4dkhxSZRP7PskrT9L6QhJf2qFMSVHQHqTPJjV74/X3/i-S7psbLr-X3.jpg", "Camas flowers in the tall grass, with ocean and mountains in the background, Dallas Road, Victoria", "wild camas is my favourite spring flower" %}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-H72F8pV/0/MD8DD5KP2qWzVQF7JBr4M8sKFmD899NHNDkjDq4g8/X3/i-H72F8pV-X3.jpg", "view from Ross Bay beach, stones, large driftwood with houses in the far background, sunny and lovely", "ross bay beach" %}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-XzqwtdZ/0/MbrpNTCMGgnjqm2NmzWMVkGqrt34z2jfD82s3VHmR/X3/i-XzqwtdZ-X3.jpg", "large, bright yellow cluster of seeds on a palm tree.  The seeds look gooey, like a honeycomb", "Are these seeds?  I've never seen them before" %}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-2nhStmd/0/MDLghMXhmL3Z32cPb276tMfQdbb3tz6K7Tmg9rsPP/X3/i-2nhStmd-X3.jpg", "healthy garlic plants in a boulevard garden bed, Fairfield, Victoria", "much healthier than my balcony garlic" %}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-skcs78V/0/KS3BJ6DDqmd2pdN3bKjFGpBR6v9svnCdnG5pjKKhM/X3/i-skcs78V-X3.jpg", "tiny pink buds, ready to burst open, on a tree in Fairfield, Victoria", "more blossoms to come!" %}
