---
title: "Monday May 19, 2025"
date: 2025-05-19
---

It was a home chore day, but since it was a holiday Monday, we got out for a nice walk in the morning.  Cindy made sandwiches and we walked to Gonzales Beach and back.   It was another chilly day, so we stuck inland for most of the walk, but Gonzales is sheltered so our picnic was lovely even with imperfect weather.

We took a new-to-us side street called Beechwood Street which was stellar.  The entire long block was full of front gardens, boulevard gardens, seed exchange mailboxes and more.  It was as if everyone on the block decided to transform the street into an urban garden.  We loved it, and the birds did too.  We heard more birdsong on that block than on the entire walk.  Birds and humans like the same thing.  Go figure.

The coolest thing about Beechwood Street is that it our diversion actually shortened the walk to Gonzales Beach.  It's one of those space-folding streets that Victoria is famous for.  You think you're walking away from your destination, turn 90 degrees and there it is.  

Bonus!  We saw a bald eagle land in its nest along Fairfield Street, beside the ball diamonds near Ross Bay.  I got a great recording of its chattery 'song' too, which I've never heard before.  So, so wonderful.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-m5w9zXG/0/Nck39vxVZ9kxjZrVHfRZDSNX7FXQ5Gb5MNxkNwx5C/X3/i-m5w9zXG-X3.jpg","close up of alpine ground cover that is just about to bloom with red flowers, from a front garden on Beechwood Street, Victoria.","Cindy loves the alpine plants" %}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-9jtv38M/0/NRN8X9LNsJmC8PzNJMcMtJhBCXBhTVbtTVsVh9sCD/X3/i-9jtv38M-X3.jpg", "front garden along Moss Street, Victoria. The boulevard is covered with white daisies, while the front yard is full of red and purple flowers and masses of shrubs.  The house is painted golden-yellow and contrasts perfectly with the flowers.","stunning composition" %}