---
title: "Thursday May 1, 2025"
date: 2025-05-01
---

We had our first lawn bowling lesson last night, so of course I had to check out the competition today.  My daily walk somehow took me to the Cook Street bowling club, on the eastern edge of Beacon Hill Park.  Not much to see at the clubhouse but the rest of the walk was delightful.

There are still new blooms everywhere.  The massive chestnut trees are in flower; huge white plumes in scale with these tall, broad trees.  I got up close with one cluster and noticed the most delicate pink blushes inside each tiny flower.  Quite exquisite.

Beacon Hill Park was full of folks enjoying an exceptionally warm spring day.  I spotted two young women photographing the perfect picnic display, likely for social media or a poster.  My goodness they were particular, fussing about to make sure the baguette was perfectly aligned with the wine glasses and straw hat.  But the light was brilliant and I'm sure they didn't want conflicting shadows to mess up their image.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-zcQGcW2/0/KL2fLDFXzCM29Gx2N2w6MjJ6672V5MftrqwVmFTCx/X3/i-zcQGcW2-X3.jpg", "close up of chestnut blossoms, Cook Street, Victoria", "chestnut blooms" %}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-cnJ2ctf/0/K9CxcFwNGJkGQHGZChqMBn7vPJZTzHLc6NkXMsSFh/X3/i-cnJ2ctf-X3.jpg", "A bed of long stemmed flowers, with the flower heads still waiting to open, Beacon Hill Park", "The leaves look like tulips, but maybe these are poppies?" %}

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-4K8sWHh/0/Lkfm7QrXW63tSpthfsNgg5J5PS5SFNbWwv2WVhHh2/X3/i-4K8sWHh-X3.jpg", "A cluster of thick flower stalks with short, thick, unopened heads, Cook Street Village", "I need to go back later to see what these flowers are" %}
