---
title: "Shifting to Linux"
date: 2025-10-02
tags: ["Tech","linux", "writing"]
---
I've been getting more and more frustrated with Windows.  So much bloatware, so many adds, so much pushing AI. And then the notes about how prices are going up (but it comes with AI!) and our Windows 10 machines will soon be obsolete.

Enough is enough.  

I've been thinking about moving to Linux for an age now.  I already do all my writing, maintain this website, and using the Windows 'subsystem for Linux' and I like it.  But I was afraid of messing up my main laptop by either having a hardware conflict or making a mistake and losing all my data files.  An opportunity arose this summer when we were back in Saskatchewan and we found Robyn's old Acer laptop collecting dust at her Grandma's house.  I now have a test system that I can break without permanent loss.

It's an Acer E1-532 laptop.  A mid-powered machine when it was made in 2013 but woefully underpowered 12 years later.  But it's got 8GB of RAM and a 700GB hard drive so that's a big bonus.  I replaced the long-dead battery for $25 and got to tinkering.

The first decision was choosing a Linux distribution. I started down the path of 'spartan and stable', loading Debian 13 with the XFCE desktop.  I figured that the less I loaded on the machine, the better it might perform.  But I struggled with things like the music player and video streaming.  This is all fixable, I'm sure, but after watching a few dozen YouTube videos I figured I should try the most 'user friendly' Linux first and simplify from there if needed.  So I loaded up Linux Mint Debian edition (LMDE) with the Cinnamon desktop and everything is working very, very well.

It takes a while to boot, for sure, but once the system is running it works very well.  There's enough graphical oomph to stream video, play movies, drive our 32" monitor and play music from our external hard drive or via the Tidal app.  And it's a little laggy when loading apps, especially Firefox or Tidal, but once the apps is loaded, everything works fine.  

I'm using the Linux laptop as a media server, permanently attached to the big monitor and speakers, for at least a month or more before making big changes to my main Dell XPS laptop and getting rid of Windows for good.  My main issue is finding a way to back up my data -- I have more on Microsoft OneDrive than can fit on my machine, so moving  / backing up is a challenge.  I really need to splurge on some new external storage; the handful of old hard drives on hand are all pushing 10+ years old and I really shouldn't be relying on them.  

Conclusion so far?  I'm pumped about the Linux experience.  It does everything I need without pushing all the ads and other bloat into my face.  I really want to get it working on a snappier machine though.  But I need to go about this carefully because I can't afford to lose 10 year's worth of work in the process.  