---
title: "Weeknote: Bikes, Cars, Berries and Bowls"
date: 2025-07-20
tags: ["Weeknote"]
---
It was another beautiful summer week and we filled it up with outside activities.  I love having Cindy off work, making lists and dragging me out on adventures, and she was at her best this week.

### The Week's Business

Not much to report. Hooray!  We met with a substitute housesitter who will fill in for a week while our main housesitters are away, all while we are away in August. If it sounds complicated, that's because it is.  All of this to feed a cat who pretty much fends for herself.

I volunteered to help with the [Lawn Bowls club website](https://downtownlawnbowling.ca/) and had my first meeting with the other volunteers.  My first order of business is debugging a Wordpress plugin that isn't working as hoped.  Wish me luck on that.

And in something that straddles the line with 'fun', I implemented some of the changes I've been working on with this website.  Most of the changes are in the background, but I'm pleased with what I've done so far.  And the blog post I wrote about [data and collections in Eleventy](https://madbaker.com/blog/data-vs-collections-in-eleventy/) was added to the canon of [worldwide Eleventy blog posts](https://11tybundle.dev) which is a thrill.

### This Week's Fun

Ooh, so much to talk about!  We've been everywhere we could be this week.  

Tuesday was extra hot but thankfully I bought a funky new sun hat to wear to bowling.  It came in handy but didn't help my line or weight at all.  We had two guest bowlers from Scotland who were wrapping up a Western Canadian tour and it was nice to visit with someone from away and hear their impressions of Canada.  Of course, their tour took them to all the best bits, so they loved their time here!

On Tuesday evening, we had a lovely supper picnic in Beacon Hill Park with Sally and Jeff, getting caught up on their summer so far while listening to some lovely music at the bandshell.  Sally is back from a multi-day wilderness hike on the west side of the island and was full of adventure stories.  

Wednesday was our annual trip to the [Saskatoon Berry farm](https://www.southislandsaskatoons.com/) to load up on berries for the year, along with baking and ice cream at Cowichan Bay.  I love this trip every year, so was glad we made it up there in time.  We thought we were at the peak of the season but we actually went on the final day of picking.  I think I understand how the season works now so we won't be caught out next year.

Thursday was a double dose of biking and music (I told you we were busy!)  We biked out to Willows Beach for lunch and then picked up our groceries at the Old Farm Market.  It was a brilliant beach day, hanging out on the grass and reading, dipping a toe in the ocean, and capping it all off with crinkle cut fries.  

We barely got home before heading out again, on foot, for a concert at Government House.  The lawn was packed with people grooving to a swing band and then some rockin' 70's disco hits.  Lots of folks brought a full fancy picnic setup, complete with folding tables, fancy cheeses and a chutney or two.  We bought hot dogs from a food truck and were exceptionally happy.

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-FFVXPBx/0/Mbqx2Tnr4wsHNKRnrghKf27LpJ65Dq4Fn25gjC9nw/XL/i-FFVXPBx-XL.jpg", "pale yellow tropical flowers in a front garden, Fairfield, Victoria", "New (to me) beauties in Fairfield" %}

After a recovery day Friday, I headed over to the bowls club early Saturday morning for the Novice Championship tournament, which I won! I was super pleased, especially because I'd been bowling poorly the past week or so, but maybe I'm doing OK after all.  I scored three perfect ends during the tournament, beat my (good natured) rival Neil, and had to control my whoop when I pulled off an extra-weight, trailing jack shot for four when Vern was looking to score three on the end.  I hope I haven't peaked early!

And that's not all!  Sunday was the Deuce Days car show, an every-three-years extravaganza where custom cars and hot rods from all over North America come to Victoria.  Downtown was full of hundreds and hundreds of cars and thousands of spectators and as usual, it was all just outside our front door.  We went for a walk and saw less than half the cars, but we saw enough to snap over 100 photos for Cin's mom. 

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/Family/Victoria/Deuce-Days-2025-Victoria/i-7bvv3H9/0/LR553dD9nBtBcGsPdPn3d9PrxLCfBL8b4xZv8KxrQ/M/IMG_4321-M.jpg", "a tan open top roadster from the Deuce Days fair","one of the hundreds of cars on display at Deuce Days"%}

What a week!  And after all that, we missed the Moss Street Paint-in, the fabric fair in Langford and a dozen other events.  Victoria is wild in the summer.

### Garden Update

All the garlic is up and curing, the final peas have been picked, and three radishes have germinated.  But honestly, I didn't spend much time on the balcony this week with everything else going on.

###  What filled me up this week

I'm still making my way through the [David Graeber essays](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/205363978-the-ultimate-hidden-truth-of-the-world), lingering on his idea of the 'caring classes' and how they (we?) are getting the short end of it. 

And my library hold of Rutger Bregman's new book [Moral Ambition: Stop wasting your talent and start making a difference](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/218372426-moral-ambition?) came in this week, so I started on it.  Great topic, required reading, but I suspect his calls to action will leave me a little more guilty than Graber's essays, based on the opening at least.  I hope there's some more guidance before the end of it.

But the main thing that filled me up was crocheting a handbag for Cindy.  I saw a cool video on YouTube for an easy tote bag and made a smaller version for Cin's phone and wallet, etc when we go for walks.  It turned out great and I have more than enough yarn left over to make a slightly bigger one if this turns out to be too small.  

It was fairly quick to make too, maybe 10 hours over four days.  We picked out the colours on Wednesday after berry picking and I finished in on Sunday evening.  

{% imagePlaceholder "https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-9w7nQ8f/0/MqBX2VhdcnfWPSsX7T6J8WQmCrRdn7g8NfpnjsK55/M/i-9w7nQ8f-M.jpg", "blue and white crocheted cotton handbag, hanging on a doorknob in a fashionable manner", "my third ever crochet project 😊" %}
