---
title: "More Practice"
date: 2025-10-01
tags: ["writing"]
---

Oof.  It's been so long since I posted that I had to think hard about how to make a post!  

October is here, the rains are starting, and my mood is getting darker.  I find myself puttering around, sorting and resorting, re-arranging, re-configuring but not actually making any progress.  Even "progress" has come into question.  Progress to what?  I have no plan, no objective, and it shows.

I bought a book in Nelson called [Bad Artist](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/205125788-bad-artist).  It's a collection of essays that talk about the mental struggle with not making 'progress'.  So far the essays are by young mothers who step out of the fast (creative) lane and struggle to accept being on the outside.  I feel the same in every way except the new baby.  The world is passing me by, getting progressively darker and meaner, and I sit here, getting more and more insular and inhibited. 

Now, even going to a stamp club meeting is a bridge too far.  Replying to a personal email is a mountain.  The postcards I bought at the start of our summer trip remain in the bag (there is nobody to deliver them anyway.)  My paints went back on the shelf, untouched.  

I've been doing tiny things.  Crocheting a blanket, one row at a time.  Learning linux, slowly.  But I go to bed each night feeling it was a day wasted, with nothing in the morning beyond a repeat of today's shuffling.

One spark of hope was picked up Monday evening at a Truth and Reconciliation event.  The elder talked about a Practice of reconciliation.  I hung onto 'practice.'  Aside from my daily crochet session, I've lost my practice.  My creative practice, my self-care practice, my social practice.  

And yes, my work practice is missing too.  That thing where I do something for others, and they appreciate it. I'm months out of practice with that one.

This post is a very tiny start to my writing practice, my creative practice.  But it's a start.  Once I remember how to push this to the web, that is.